# module-3-challenge

User story
AS A payroll manager
I WANT AN employee payroll tracker
SO THAT I can see my employees' payroll data and properly budget for the company

Acceptance criteria
GIVEN an employee payroll tracker
WHEN I click the "Add employee" button
THEN I am presented with a series of prompts asking for first name, last name, and salary
WHEN I finish adding an employee
THEN I am prompted to continue or cancel
WHEN I choose to continue
THEN I am prompted to add a new employee
WHEN I choose to cancel
THEN my employee data is displayed on the page sorted alphabetically by last name, and the console shows computed and aggregated data

To complete this project, we didnt have to do too much other than collect data, display (console.log) the data, and then select a couple of components from the data. With that, the first portion required prompts in a loop. This essentially asks for inputs from the user and by using a boolean we can run the loop, collect data, until the user returns false by selecting cancel when prompted to enter data. The assignment already had the code to link the inputs to a stylized table.

For the next section, displaying average salary, I started things out by creating a dynamic variable totalSalary to represent total salary. It is set to 0 but the value can change as it is a let not a const. The salary inputs are received from the employeesArray.salary (calls on the salary portion of the given array) and generated by running a for loop. The += part (totalSalary += employeesArray[i].salary;) tells the browser that for the parent function(const displayAverageSalary = function(employeesArray)) we want the result of the for loop to be the value of a variable (total salary). Thereafter, the total salary is divided by the length of the employees array thus generating an average. By adding .toFixed(2) to the object literal averageSalary the result generated by the division is rounded to the nearest hundreths place. I did forget to make a commit after the constructing of this portion of code (edit** is in the Added more notes to JavaScript commit - could've been more concise with naming commit and better about uploading more commits to show thought process). 

Selecting a random employee was the most fun for me in this project. Why? It was a hard one to wrap my mind around. To do this, the names had to be "converted" into a number, then the number randomly selected. Since the names are a part of an array, they have an index value. The index is considered in the parent function and in this case is (const getRandomEmployee = function(employeesArray) {}). Within this function, we create a variable called randomIndex and then perform the following: Multiply using math.floor(math.random() * employeesArray.length). This multiplies the length of array by a random number between 0 and 1. This ensures the generated number is both random and doesn't exceed the length of the array. There after we log the generaterd name with this line (console.log("Random name: " + randomEmployee.firstName + " " + randomEmployee.lastName);).

I did receive assisntace on the verifying salary portion from the xpert learning assistant that is a part of the bootcamp this assigntment was from. This, I belive, in essence ensures the inputted data is a number. When testing out the prompts, if one doesn't input a number when prompted the user is infact prompted to submit a valid number. 